Clean up typos for 0.1.0 release! (#48)
geoarrow/geoarrow: README.md

# GeoArrow Specification

> This repository contains specifications for storing geospatial data in Apache Arrow

Reviewer: nit, but could go either way
```suggestion
This repository contains a specification for storing geospatial data in Apache Arrow
```

can also have non-spatial attributes that describe the feature.

Geospatial data often comes in tabular format, with one or more columns with
feature geometries and additional columns with feature attributes. The Arrow columnar
memory model is well-suited to store both vector features and
their attribute data. The GeoArrow specification defines how the vector features
(geometries) can be stored in Arrow (and Arrow-compatible) data structures.

This repository contains the specifications for:

- The memory layout for storing geometries in an Arrow array ([format.md](./format.md))
- The Arrow extension type definitions that ensure type-level metadata (e.g., CRS) is
  propagated when used in Arrow implementations ([extension-types.md](./extension-types.md))

Defining a standard and efficient way to store geospatial data in the Arrow memory
layout enables interoperability between different tools and ensures geospatial tools can
leverage the growing Apache Arrow ecosystem:

- Efficient, columnar file formats. Leveraging the performant and compact storage of
  Apache Parquet as a vector data format in geospatial tools using

>   [GeoParquet](https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoparquet/)

Reviewer: I'd go the other way and add a period after each bullet point, but this is minor 🤷‍♂️

- Accelerated between-process geospatial data exchange using Apache Arrow IPC message
  format and Apache Arrow Flight
- Zero-copy in-process geospatial data transport using the Apache Arrow C Data Interface
  (e.g., GDAL)
- Shared libraries for geospatial data type representation and computation for query
  engines that support columnar data formats (e.g., Velox, DuckDB, and Acero)

### Relationship with GeoParquet

The GeoParquet specification originally started in this repo, but was moved out into its
own repo (https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoparquet), leaving this repo to focus on
the Arrow-specific specifications (Arrow layout and extension type metadata). Whereas

> GeoParquet is a file-level metadata specification, GeoArrow is an array-level metadata

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GeoParquet is a file-level metadata specification, GeoArrow is a field-level metadata
```

Is that strictly speaking more correct? (but I am certainly fine with having it as "array", or "column")

> and memory layout that applies in-memory (e.g., an Arrow array), on disk (e.g., using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and memory layout specification that applies to in-memory (e.g., an Arrow array), on disk (e.g., using
```

or "metadata specification and memory layout"

The sentence "GeoArrow is an array-level metadata" sounds a bit strange without an additional word

* [geoarrow-rs](https://github.com/geoarrow/geoarrow-rs/): Rust implementation of the
  GeoArrow specification and bindings to GeoRust algorithms for efficient spatial
  operations on GeoArrow memory. Includes JavaScript (WebAssembly) bindings.

> * [geoarrow-python](https://github.com/geoarrow/geoarrow-python): Bindings to geoarrow-c

Reviewer: Maybe redundant but starting the description with `Python` probably adds clarity
```suggestion
* [geoarrow-python](https://github.com/geoarrow/geoarrow-python): Python bindings to geoarrow-c
```

  and geoarrow-rs that provide integrations with libraries like pyarrow, pandas, and

>   geopandas.

Reviewer: Maybe it makes sense to add `geoarrow-wasm` to this list as well? https://www.npmjs.com/package/geoarrow-wasm or https://github.com/geoarrow/geoarrow-rs/blob/main/js/README.md are fine links
